Welcome back.
We have the currency exchange series is ready and we have set up the currency service we have set
up a dummy service on the currency calculation service.
Now you would want to invoke the currency exchange service from the currency calculation service how do
we do that.
The thing which you typically use to invoke an external service which is exposed using entity
is the rest template.
Let's create a new rest template and try to invoke this service and see all the complexities that are involved
in that.
Let's get started now.
Let's go to the controller and try and create a new rest template.
You would rest template dot let's import it in.
You can see that it's coming in from args framework framework web client rest template.
This offers a lot of methods the one which would be using is using an entity what we'll do is we'll take
the response back the response which is coming back from the currency exchange service is this format
right to ID from to conversion multiple input.
We have also created the currency conversion bean over here in exactly the same format in exactly the same
thing.
So we can try and map the response to this bean and take the conversion multiple and calculate the total
calculated amount.
So what we want to do is to map the response which is coming back to a entity and we would want to send a get
requests so the method to use is get for entity.
So for the get for entity I need to pass in the URI so URI which we want to use is what we have
already here.
So I'll take this.
However in this we don't want to hard code the EUR or INR.
So these two have to be variables.
So the first one is from the other one is true.
So we would want to take these values from the requests so whatever comes in the request we would want
to send them out to the currency exchange so that we can get the currency exchange from that currency
to the other one.
So we have a few variables that we need to decide.
So let's not worry about it right now the response type which we're expecting back is currency conversion bean.
So even from here we are expecting the same thing so currency conversion bean dot class.
However one more thing that I would need to do is I would need to pass the values for these variables.
So how should these values be replaced.
For that you would need to define something called a variables.
URL variables I can pass in a map of string as URI variables.
But for now we'll create a map so I'll call this URI variables.
Let's do a control one and say create a local variable.
URI variables it's creating an object I'll just say it's map of string.
Comma string.
So in this URI variables new hash map let's organize the imports.
So in the URI variables let's put the variables that I needed for URI so URl variables dot put.
I can say the value from is whatever is coming in the request path variable and the value of to is
whatever is coming from the request.
Path variable again and what we want to do is do a get for this entity and map the response back to the
currency conversion bean.
We would want the URI variables to be used to replace the value of from and to that simple right.
We just created a rest template dot get for entity.
And this would return the response back so I'll say control one I send a statement to local
variable and this would return the response entity back.
Once we get the response entity we can get the actual response object by doing a response entity dot
get body and I can again do a control one assign to local variable.
This would be the currency conversion bean.
And I'll just call this response when we are craeting the conversation bean what we want to do is we
want to use the values from the response.
So the id I would use from the response as well so response dot get ID from is fine from I can use
from the request to alter from the request.
The next thing that we need to pass in is the conversion factor so if you look at the currency conversion bean
the 4th one is conversion multiple.
So I would need to pass in response.
dot get conversion multiple.
Let's do that and the next one is quantity.
After that I would do a quantity dot.
Multiply that conversion multiple.
That's the total value that we would want rest return back.
Let's put this into new so that it's more visible over here what we want to do is we would want to multiply
the quantity so this is 50 USD each USD is how much 65.
So I would need to multiply 50 with whatever is coming in the response whatever multiple is coming in
the response back and I would also want to return the port from the response dot get port.
That's it what we are doing in here is very simple.
All that we are doing is we are calling us others services we are calling the currency exchange service.
We are setting the variables to it.
So from is what two is what we are calling it.
We're getting the response back taking it into the bean and we're creating the response bean a new response
bean by using the content which is present in the response.
Now if I go ahead and start the application and hit the service this is the currency exchange service
the currency exchange service is right now down.
So we will not be able to talked it.
So let's bring up the currency exchange service as well.
The important thing for you to understand is the fact that we would need both the currency exchange
service and the currency conversion service is up right now because the currency conversion Service
is now talking to the currency exchange service.
So you will see C S which is the currency conversion service is talking to the currency exchange service which
is the CCS.
So we would need both these applications running.
So make sure that the currency exchange service and the currency conversions service both the applications
are up and running let's try and hit the currency exchange again.
Cool.
The currency exchange service bit returns our response back.
No I would go to the currency conversion service.
So this is the URI which we used earlier localhost 8100 currency converter from USD to INR quantity
thousand let's refresh.
You're seeing right now that it's getting a conversion multiple of 65 back.
So based using the conversion multiple 65 multiplying by the quantity and turning the total calculated amount
is 65000 thousand so thousand USD is equal to 65000 INR.
And it's also returning back the other application the currency exchange service is returning running on port
8000 in the last few steps.
We spent a considerable amount of time setting up the currency calculation service the currency exchange
servie and the limits service is it is very important for you to understand that these services are critical
for us to be able to understand all the functionality in spring cloud very well whether you want to
understand the naming server or you'd want to understand load balancing with ribbon or you would want
to understand how to do distribute tracing.
It's very important to have example services.
And that's what we were doing until now we have now set up a currency exchange service and a currency
calculation servies as well from the next step on we will take a deep dive into this spring cloud features.
Until then Bye bye.